# Redis 数据类型
## 参考
https://redis.io/topics/data-types-intro
## 数据类型分类

> Binary-safe strings.
> Lists: collections of string elements sorted according to the order of insertion. They are basically linked lists.
> Sets: collections of unique, unsorted string elements.
> Sorted sets, similar to Sets but where every string element is associated to a floating number value, called score. The elements are always taken sorted by their score, so unlike Sets it is possible to retrieve a range of elements (for example you may ask: give me the top 10, or the bottom 10).
> Hashes, which are maps composed of fields associated with values. Both the field and the value are strings. This is very similar to Ruby or Python hashes.
> Bit arrays (or simply bitmaps): it is possible, using special commands, to handle String values like an array of bits: you can set and clear individual bits, count all the bits set to 1, find the first set or unset bit, and so forth.
> HyperLogLogs: this is a probabilistic data structure which is used in order to estimate the cardinality of a set. Don't be scared, it is simpler than it seems... See later in the HyperLogLog section of this tutorial.
> Streams: append-only collections of map-like entries that provide an abstract log data type. They are covered in depth in the Introduction to Redis Streams.

## 对象类型
其中一些数据类型类型 通过 [[对象系统]] 来维护
server.h 定义了以下 7 种
### 5 种常用数据类型
* [[string]]
* [[list]]
* [[hash]]
* [[set]]]
* [[zset]]

### 2 种其他的
* module 
* stream

## 非对象类型
2 种特殊的数据结构
* [[hyperloglogs]] 基数统计用到的数据结构 最高占用12kb
* bitmap/bitArrays 位操作用到的数据结构
* GEO 特性在 Redis 3.2 版本中推出
